---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective BLOG
date: 2021-05-15
labels:
  - MIS
  - Assignment 3
  - ITM 352
---
 
Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)

In Assignment 3, I created an e-commerce site named "Fashion Outerwear" which sells products from different clothing brands. These products such as jackets, pants, shoes, and hats from each brand.

Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?

Was not able to set a user session that would expire items in the shopping cart after a certain amount of time. Additional extra credit suggestions couldn't be done in time before submission.

Describe what you are most proud of about your system:

Being able to allow a user to move through different pages and add in any list of products to the cart. Working through the cart poriton of the assignment was a large hump to overcome during the writing process. Having to refer back to differnt sources to make sure that items would transfer to the cart correctly and have that function work properly was a huge goal completion moment.

Describe what you are least happy with your system:

My css skills for page visuals aren't as good as I had hoped for the pages to look. Trying to go for a more minimalistic design like Japanese streetwear brands was harder than it looked to accomplish.

How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?

Assignment 3 had many more hoops to overcome when trying to add a navigation bar for differnt pages to be accessed. The addition of cookies and sessions made the assignment work in a differnt way. Assignment 2 could be worked on by adding new pages and server actions without having to edit much of the other already existing pages. Assignment 3 required almost a total rework of how the products were shown on the page.

When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?

Either checking with online sources and finding templates of how a to set up things like a navigation bar and sending an email for a cart purchase. Also asking for guidence from friends when going over concepts of cookies and sessions to have a better understanding on how they work. Mainly to overcome a problem, asking for help when stuck was a large benefit to the final assingment.

Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?

Seperating product pages to allow easier transitions from one product page to the next. Instead of trying to have all the products reload for a brand, having a user be redirected to a differnt page was easier to manage.

Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?

Adding in css to make the page was difficult and tedious when trying to see what changes affected the page. Making sure the cart would take new items as a number rather than a string. For example, adding a product to a cart on two occasions would have the user add "55" to their quantity rather than "5+5" for a total of "10" in the cart.

What did you learn from doing this assignment?

Making sure to have an outline of how you want a product to look like before asking for more help. Understanding what the assignment was asking for in detail and creating a plan before going into writing code was a large part of this. In previous assingments, jumping into the assignment and working between all pages would be confusing and hard to manage. Assignment 3 did not allow that process to happen, creating a teaching moment on creating a plan of action rather than making edits where needed.

If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?

Definitely work on the css of this assignment. Although the page mostly runs the way I wanted it to in terms of features, the aesthetics of the page was not the way I had hoped for it to look like. 

Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

Thinking about how to do something: 25%
Writing code: 35%
Testing and debugging: 40%

Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)

Myself: 100%
I worked without a team member for this assignment.
